Far out in the ocean, where the water is as blue as the prettiest cornflower, and as clear as crystal, it is very, very deep; many church steeples would not reach from the ground beneath to the surface of the water above, because the water is too deep.
The sea king and his people live there.
We should not think that the sea bottom has nothing but bare yellow sand.
No, indeed; the most singular flowers and plants grow there. The leaves and stems are so strong that when the water touches them, they stir as if they were alive.
Fishes, both large and small, glide between the branches. There are also birds in the trees.
In the deepest place, the Sea King's castle can be found.
Its walls are made of coral. Its long, gothic windows are made of clear amber.
The roof is made of shells. When the water flows over them, they open and close.
Their appearance is very beautiful. In each of them is a beautiful pearl. This pearl would be perfect for a queen.
The Sea King had been a widower for many years. His mother kept the house for him.
She was a very wise woman, and very proud of her high birth. Because of this, she was allowed to wear twelve oysters on her tail, while others were only allowed six.
However, she was given a lot of praise because she took good care of her grand-daughters, the little sea-princesses.
They were all very beautiful, but the youngest was the most beautiful. Her skin was like a rose leaf, and her eyes were as blue as the deepest sea. But like all the others, she had no feet, and her body ended in a fish's tail.
They played all day long in the castle's great halls. They also played with the living flowers on the walls.
The large amber windows were open, and the fish swam in, just as the swallows fly into our houses when we open the windows, except that the fish did not touch the princesses and did not eat from their hands.
There was a beautiful garden outside the castle. It had bright red and dark blue flowers, and blossoms like fire. The fruit looked like gold, and the leaves and stems moved from side to side.
The earth itself was the best sand, but the blue of the fire was the best sand.
There was a strange blue light over everything, as if it were coming from above. The blue sky shone through it, instead of the dark depths of the sea.
In calm weather the sun could be seen, looking like a purple flower, with the light streaming from the calyx. Each of the young princesses had a garden of her own, where she could plant whatever she wanted.
One made her flower-bed in the shape of a whale, and another made her flower-bed like a little mermaid. The youngest flower-bed was round like the sun, and when the sun went down it had red flowers.
She was a strange child, quiet and thoughtful. While her sisters were happy with all the beautiful things they had found when they searched for ships, she only cared for her pretty red flowers, like the sun, except for a beautiful statue.
The picture showed a young boy who had been carved out of pure white stone. The stone had fallen to the bottom of the sea.
A rose-colored weeping willow was planted near the statue.
It grew very quickly. Soon its branches were almost all the way down to the blue sands.
The shadow had a violet color, and moved from side to side like the branches. It seemed like the tree's crown and root were trying to kiss each other.
