At the center of Earth is the planet's hot core. Scientists say the core may be losing heat faster than expected.
The Earth's core has been cooling since the planet formed. When the Earth was first made, the entire surface was covered with magma.
The scientific understanding of how quickly this cooling happens was challenged on January 15. A study showed that the process may be going faster than scientists thought.
The discovery, by researchers from Switzerland, Germany, the US and Japan, adds to a body of research that has shown that more heat comes from the Earth's core than was thought before.
The Earth's lower mantle is made up of rock, and its upper mantle is liquid.
It is made up mostly of a mineral called bridgmanite. The mineral was named after physicist Percy Bridgman in 2014.
Bridgmanite is the most common mineral in the world.
"We eventually found that the previous thermal conductivity value [of bridgmanite] was highly underestimated," said Motohiko Murakami, lead author of the study and a professor at ETH Zurich.
The thermal conductivity of the bridgmanite was found to be 1.5 times higher than expected.
"The heat transfer from the core would go more efficiently than previously thought," Murakami said. "The cooling of the core would be faster than expected."
The Earth's core is not reached by scientists, so it is hard to study.
What they can do are geophysical studies and experiments to make the conditions as they are deep down.
This is what Murakami's team tried to do, said Helen Williams, a geochemist at the University of Cambridge in the United Kingdom. She was not involved in the study.
A synthetic mineral is a mineral that has been made by scientists, but is not found in nature.
The equipment they used to make this work can fit in your hand. It is called a diamond anvil cell.
A mineral sample is placed in a small chamber. Diamond walls from all sides compress the sample.
The sample is heated by a laser that shines through the diamond, said Karin Sigloch, who was not involved in the study. She is a geophysicist at the French National Center for Scientific Research.
"This makes small rock samples, which we hope will be like those in the deep earth," she said.
"The conventional wisdom has been that radiation does not contribute significantly to heat transport anywhere in the solid Earth," said Gerd Steinle-Neumann, who was not involved in the study, but who studies the Earth's interior at the University of Bayreuth.
"The experiments by Murakami confirm previous studies that radiation can increase heat loss from the core to the mantle by approximately 50%, making the entire Earth lose heat faster," Steinle-Neumann said.
Singloch said the result from Murakami and his colleagues' research is important, but that the paper's discussion about tectonic implications did not go far enough.
"The result is an important one," Sigloch said. "It helps clarify that conductive heat transfer and radiative heat transfer likely play more similar roles in the core's cooling than previously thought."
"This number gives us a better understanding of how core cooling works, and how it affects the behavior of the mantle," she said.
However, even if the world is cooling faster, it will not change the current climate problem.
"This is planetary cooling taking place on billion-year timescales, while the current global warming is taking place on decadal timescales," Williams said.
I.
