Even though it is not the same, Europe's ski resorts are very busy.
Austria is having a bad season, but in Switzerland visitor numbers are higher than they were before.
Empty mountain chalets and hotels, lifts stopped, this is what the ski season looked like in large parts of Europe last year.
Some ski resorts in Austria and Germany, for example, did not open for a single day because of the weather.
This year, however, hoteliers and cable car companies can breathe a sigh of relief.
Despite the fast spread of the omicron version, skiing is still allowed in some places, but only under certain rules.
"Above all we are very happy that the lifts are open again after the 2020/2021 winter lockdown," said Bayerische Zugspitzbahn spokeswoman Carolin Kunzmann.
However, she also said that visitor numbers are still lower than before the crisis.
In the areas around Germany's highest mountain, so-called 2G rules apply, but some people do not follow them.
"2G" stands for "geimpft oder genesen". This means "vaccinated".
"Every guest is checked at the ticket office or base station," Kunzmann said.
"Only after they have shown proof of recovery or vaccination will their ski pass be activated."
This has led to longer waiting times, especially during the high season, but the approach has generally worked well in most cases.
In addition, FFP2 masks are still required in indoor areas, ski lifts and cable cars.
Austria also has its own rules about winter sports.
The 2G rule and FFP2 masks are also common here.
The country was in a state of emergency until mid-December. The numbers were high.
The Robert Koch Institute said that Austria was a high-risk area. The German Foreign Ministry said people should not travel there.
Many people, especially from Germany, have been put off.
26% fewer holidaymakers have come to Austria because of the disease, according to the Austrian hoteliers' association ÖHV.
However, the majority of people visiting Austria come from Germany.
In January, the occupancy rate of Austrian hotels was around one third. According to the ÖHV, this is "too little to make money."
"Of course, there are still a few vacancies this season," says Zillertal Tourism managing director Beate Kassner.
However, she said, they are happy with the booking situation.
In the Alpine region, the hope is that business will pick up in February. Austria has been declared a high-risk area once again.
