Speech recognition is changing our lives.
They are built into our phones, smart watches, and game consoles.
Even our homes are being automated.
For just $50, you can get an Amazon Echo Dot, a magic box that allows you to buy trash bags, get a weather report and order pizza just by speaking out loud.
The Echo Dot has been so popular this holiday season that Amazon has not been able to keep it in stock.
But speech recognition has been around for a long time, so why is it just now being used?
The reason for this is that deep learning finally made speech recognition accurate enough to be used outside of training environments.
Andrew Ng has said for a long time that when speech recognition goes from 95% accurate to 99% accurate, we will use computers more and more.
The idea is that this 4% difference is the difference between very useful and very unreliable.
Deep learning has finally reached its peak.
Let's take a look at speech recognition with deep learning.
Machine learning is not always a bad thing.
If you know how neural machine translation works, you might think that we could simply feed a neural network sound recordings and train it to create text.
This is the holy grail of deep learning speech recognition, but we are not quite there yet (at least not yet). I bet that we will be in a couple of years (at least).
The main problem is that the speed varies.
One person might say "hello" very quickly, and the other person might say "heeeelllllllllllllooooo" very slowly. This will make a longer sound file.
Both both sound files should be recognized as the same sound file.
Automatically aligning different length audio files to a given piece of text turns out to be quite hard.
To work around this, we need to use some special tricks and more processing as well as a deep neural network.
Let us see how it works.
The first step in speech recognition is obvious. A computer needs to be fed sound waves.
In Part 3, we learned how to take an image and treat it as an array of numbers so that a neural network can be fed directly into it.
The sound is sent out as waves.
How do numbers turn into sound waves?
For example, let's use this sound clip.
