A clock or timepiece is a piece of equipment that measures time.
The clock is one of the oldest human inventions. People needed a way to measure time that was shorter than the amount of time in the day, month, year and year.
Several different physical processes have been used over the millennia.
Some predecessors to the modern clock may be considered as "clocks": A sundial shows the time by showing the position of a shadow on a flat surface, as the sun sets and the sun rises.
There are different types of timers. An example of a timer is the hourglass.
Water clocks, along with sundials, are probably the oldest instruments to measure time.
The first mechanical clocks were made around 1300 in Europe. They had wheels that moved with the time, and kept time with something like a balance wheel, but they did not work very well.
A clock that does not strike the hours by itself is called a striking clock. A clock that does not strike at all is called a silent clock.
This difference is no longer made.
Watches and other timepieces are usually not called clocks because they can be carried on one's person.
Spring-driven clocks were first seen in the 15th century.
During the 16th century, many people made clocks.
After 1656 a very good clock was made by Christiaan Huygens. This was a pendulum clock and it was very accurate.
The most important reason to make clocks more accurate was because it was important to know the time for navigation.
The mechanism of a timepiece with a series of gears driven by a spring is called clockwork. The term "timepiece" is also used to refer to a collection of timepieces.
The electric clock was patented in 1840, and electronic clocks were first used in the 20th century. In the 20th century, small battery-powered devices started to be used.
The timekeeping element in every modern clock is a harmonic oscillator. The harmonic oscillator is a physical object that can be made to vibrate.
This object can be a pendulum, a tuning fork, a quartz crystal (a crystal that changes color when it is struck by light).
There are many different types of clocks.
Analog clocks show time by moving their hands. A digital clock does the same.
Digital clocks use numbers to show the time.
There are two different time systems. One is 24-hour time notation.
Most digital clocks use an electronic mechanism, but not all do so well.
For the blind and people who can not see, speaking clocks say the time with words.
There are also special clocks for the blind. They can be read by touch.
