Berlin is the capital city of Germany. It is the largest city in Germany.
With 3.7 million people living there, it is the most populous city in the European Union, by population.
Berlin is the capital of the German state of Berlin. The state of Brandenburg lies to the west of Berlin, and Potsdam is its capital.
Around 4.5 million people live in the urban area of Berlin. It is the second largest urban area in Germany after the Ruhr Area.
Berlin-Brandenburg has over six million people living in it. It is the third largest city in Germany (after the Rhine-Ruhr region and the Rhine-Main region).
Berlin is located on the Spree river. This river flows into the Havel in the western part of the city in Spandau.
Among the city's main topographical features are the many lakes in the western and southeastern parts of the city. The largest of these lakes is called Lake Müggelsee.
Because Berlin is in the European Plain, the climate changes from time to time.
About one-third of the city's area is made up of forests. The city also has many parks and gardens.
The city is in the Central German dialect area. The Berlin dialect is different from many other dialects in Germany.
Berlin became the capital of the Margraviate of Brandenburg (1417 â "1701), the Kingdom of Prussia (1701 â" 1818), the German Empire (1871 â" 1818), the Weimar Republic (1919 â "1933), and the Third Reich (1933 â" 1945). It was also the capital of the Soviet Union (1933 â" 1945).
Berlin was the world's third largest city in the 1920s.
After World War II, the countries that won the war took control of the city. West Berlin was taken by the United States, and East Berlin became a de facto part of West Germany, surrounded by the Berlin Wall from 1961 to 1989.
East Berlin became the capital of East Germany, and Bonn became the capital of West Germany.
When Germany was reunited in 1990, Berlin became the capital of all of Germany again.
Berlin is a very important city for culture and science.
Its economy is based on high-tech companies and the service sector. The city also has many different types of businesses, research facilities, media companies and convention venues.
Berlin is the biggest city in Germany. It has a large public transportation network, and many international airports.
The city is a popular tourist destination.
Important industries also include IT, construction, pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, clean tech, and medical engineering.
There are many universities in Berlin, for example the Humboldt University, the Free University, the Technical University, the Free University of Berlin and the Technical University of Berlin.
Its Zoological Garden is the world's most popular zoo. It is visited by many people.
Babelsberg was the world's first large-scale movie studio complex. Because of this, lots of movies are made in Berlin all the time.
The city is well known for its festivals. It is also known for its different architecture, nightlife and high quality of living.
Since the 2000s a lot of people from different countries live in Berlin.
