Despite the omicron variant Europes ski resorts are fairly busy.
Austria is seeing a disappointing season. In Switzerland visitor numbers are exceeding pre-pandemic levels.
This the ski season looked like in large parts of Europe last year. Lifts at a standstill empty mountain chalets and hotels this is what.
Some ski resorts in Austria and Germany for example didnt open for a single day. Some ski resorts is a disaster for the tourism industry.
This year however cable car companies and hoteliers were able to breathe a sigh of relief.
Despite the rapid spread of the omicron variant skiing was and is permitted everywhere albeit under strict conditions.
Carolin Kunzmann of the Bayerische Zugspitzbahn told DW. That the lifts are open after the 20202021 winter lockdown. Above all we are very happy.
Visitor numbers have remained lower than before the pandemic. However she also said.
In the areas around Germanys highest mountain as in many ski areas in the country the so-called 2G rule applies.
2G stands for geimpft vaccinated. Genesen. Recovered.
Kunzmann said. Every guest is checked at the base station or at the ticket office.
This will be after proof of vaccination or recovery has been presented. Only will their ski pass be activated.
This has led to longer waiting times especially in the high season during the Christmas vacations. The approach has generally worked well.
Queue areas. In addition FFP2 masks are still mandatory in indoor areas cable cars and ski lifts.
Austria also has strict rules for winter sports enthusiasts.
The 2G rule and FFP2 masks are also standard practice here.
The country was in lockdown until mid-December due to soaring infection numbers.
The Robert Koch Institute declared Austria a high-risk area. The German Foreign Ministry accordingly issued a travel warning.
Many guests especially from Germany were understandably put off.
Than before the pandemic arrived from the neighboring country according to estimates by the Austrian hoteliers association. By the Austrian hoteliers association was ÖHV.
But still the clear majority of tourists visiting Austria are from Germany.
The occupancy rate which according to the ÖHV is too little to operate economically. In January the occupancy rate of Austrian hotels was around one third.
Confirms Beate Kassner. Course there are still a few vacancies this season. Beate is Managing Director of Zillertal Tourism.
Nevertheless she says. They are pleased with the booking situation.
In the Alpine region the hope is. Business will pick up in February. Even though Austria has once been declared a high-risk area.
