Speech recognition is invading our lives.
Its built into our phones our game consoles and our smart watches.
Its even automating our homes.
Get a weather report. Is is a magic box that allows you to order pizza. For just 50 you can get an Amazon Echo Dot. Even buy trash bags. By speak out loud.
The Echo Dot has been so popular this holiday season. That Amazon nt seem to keep them in stock.
So why is it now hitting the mainstream. But speech recognition has been around for decades.
The reason is. That deep learning finally made speech recognition accurate to be useful outside of carefully controlled environments.
A primary way that we interact with computers. It will become a primary way. Andrew Ng has long predicted. As speech recognition goes from 95 accurate to 99 accurate.
The idea is that this 4 accuracy gap is the difference between annoyingly unreliable and incredibly useful.
Thanks to Deep Learning were finally cresting that peak.
Lets learn how to do speech recognition with deep learning.
Machine Learning isnt always a Black Box.
We and train it to produce text train it to produce text. How neural machine translation works. You know. You might guess. That we could feed sound recordings into a neural network.
Thats the holy grail of speech recognition with deep learning I bet that we will be in a couple of years. We arent quite there yet at least at the time that I wrote this.
The big problem is. Speech varies in speed.
One person might say hello.
Both both sound files should be recognized as exactly the same text hello.
Automatically aligning audio files of various lengths to a fixed-length piece of text turns out to be pretty hard.
We To work around this work around this. We have to use some special tricks and extra precessing in addition to a deep neural network.
It works. Lets see.
The first step in speech recognition is obvious. We need to feed sound waves into a computer.
Treat it as an array of numbers. So that we can feed into a neural network for image recognition. In Part 3 we learned how to take an image.
But sound is transmitted as waves.
How do we turn sound waves into numbers.
Say Hello. Lets use this sound clip of me.
