Berlin is the capital largest city of Germany by both area and population. .
Its 37 million inhabitants make it the European Unions most populous city according to population within city limits.
Contiguous with Potsdam. Potsdam was Brandenburgs capital. One of Germanys sixteen constituent states Berlin is surrounded by the State of Brandenburg.
Berlinurban area has a population of around 45 million. Berlins urban area is the second most populous urban area in Germany after the Ruhr.
. The Berlin-Brandenburg capital region has over six million inhabitants. The Berlin-Brandenburg capital region is Germanys third-largest metropolitan region after the Rhine-Ruhr Rhine Main regions.
Is a tributary of the Elbe. The banks flows into the Havel in the western borough of Spandau. Berlin straddles the banks of the Spree.
And Dahme. Is the largest. Havel. Of is Lake Müggelsee. Among the citys main topographical features are the many lakes in the western and southeastern boroughs formed by the Spree.
Due to its location in the European Plain Berlin is influenced by a temperate seasonal climate.
. About one-third of the citys area is composed of forests parks gardens rivers canals and lakes.
The city lies in the Central German dialect area. The Berlin dialect being a variant of the Lusatian-New Marchian dialects.
. First documented in the 13th century and at the crossing of two important historic trade routes. Berlin became the capital of the Margraviate of Brandenburg 14171701.
Berlin in the 1920s was the third-largest municipality in the world.
East German territory. West Berlin became a de facto exclave of West Germany surrounded by the Berlin Wall from August 1961 to November 1989. After World War II and its subsequent occupation by the victorious countries the city was divided.
Bonn became the West German capital. East Berlin was declared capital of East Germany.
Berlin Following German reunification in 1990. Berlin once again became the capital of all of Germany.
Berlin is a world city of culture politics media and science.
Encompass a diverse range of creative industries research facilities media corporations and convention venues. Its economy is based on high-tech firms and the service sector.
Berlin and has a highly complex public transportation network has a highly complex public transportation network. Berlin serves as a continental hub for air and rail traffic.
The metropolis is a popular tourist destination.
Pharmaceuticals. Significant industries also include IT biomedical engineering. Biotechnology construction. Clean tech. . Biotechnology construction electronics.
Bard College Berlin. Berlin is home to world-renowned universities such as the Humboldt University the Technical University the Free University. The University of the Arts ESMT Berlin.
Its Zoological Garden is the most visited zoo in Europe and one of the most popular worldwide.
Berlin With Babelsberg being the worlds first large-scale movie studio complex. With Babelsberg Berlin is an increasingly popular location for international film productions.
The city is well known for its festivals diverse architecture nightlife contemporary arts and a very high quality of living.
Since the 2000s Berlin has seen the emergence of a cosmopolitan entrepreneurial scene.
