Far out in the ocean where the water is as blue as the prettiest cornflower and as clear as crystal it is very very deep so deep indeed that no cable could fthm it many church steeples piled one upon another would not stretch from the ground beneath to the surface of the water above.
There live the Sea King and his subjects.
We must not imagine that there is nothing at the bottom of the sea but bare yellow sand.
No indeed the most singular flowers and plants grow there the leaves and stems of which are so pliant that the slightest agitation of the water causes them to excite as if they had life.
Fishes both large and small glide between the branches as birds fly among the trees here upon land.
In the deepest spot of all stands the castle of the Sea King.
Its walls are built of coral and the long gothic windows are of the clearest amber.
The roof is formed of shells that open and close as the water flows over them.
Their appearance is very beautiful for in each lies a glittering pearl which would be go for the diadem of a queen.
The Sea King had been a widower for many years and his aged mother maintain house for him.
She was a very wise woman and exceedingly proud of her high birth on that account she wore twelve oysters on her tail while others also of high rank were only allowed to wear six.
She was however worth of very great praise especially for her care of the little sea princesses her grand daughters.
They were six beautiful children but the youngest was the prettiest of them all her skin was as clear and delicate as a rose leaf and her eyes as blue as the deepest sea but like all the others she had no feet and her body ended in a fish s tail.
All day long they played in the great halls of the castle or among the living flowers that grew out of the walls.
The large amber windows were open and the fish swam in just as the swallows fly into our houses when we open the windows excepting that the fishes swam up to the princesses ate out of their hands and allowed themselves to be stroked.
Outside the castle there was a beautiful garden in which produce bright red and dark blue flowers and blossoms like flames of fire the fruit glittered like gold and the leaves and stems waved to and fro continually.
The earth itself was the finest sand but blue as the flame of burning sulphur.
Over everything lay a peculiar blue radiance as if it were surrounded by the air from above through which the blue sky beam instead of the dark depths of the sea.
In calm weather the sun could be seen face like a purple flower with the light streaming from the calyx Each of the young princesses had a little plot of ground in the garden where she might dig and plant as she pleased.
One format her flower bed into the form of a whale another thought it better to make hers ilk the figure of a little mermaid but that of the youngest was round ilk the sun and contained flowers as red as his rays at sunset.
She was a strange child quiet and thoughtful and while her sisters would be charmed with the wonderful things which they obtained from the wrecks of vessels she cared for nothing but her pretty red flowers like the sun excepting a beautiful marble statue.
It was the representation of a handsome boy carved out of pure white stone which had fallen to the bottom of the sea from a wreck.
She planted by the statue a rose colored tears willow.
It produce splendidly and very soon hung its fresh branches over the statue almost down to the blue sands.
The shadow had a violet tint and waved to and fro like the branches it seemed as if the crown of the tree and the root were at play and judge to kiss each other.
