Speech recognition is invading our lives.
It s built into our phones our game consoles and our smart watches.
It s even automating our homes.
For just 50 you can get an Amazon Echo Dot a magic box that allows you to order pizza get a weather report or even buy trash bags just by speaking out loud.
The Echo Dot has been so popular this holiday season that Amazon can t seem to continue them in stock.
But speech recognition has been around for decades so why is it just now hitting the mainstream.
The reason is that deep learning finally made speech recognition accurate enough to be useful outside of carefully see environments.
Andrew Ng has long call that as speech recognition goes from 95 accurate to 99 accurate it will become a primary way that we interact with computers.
The idea is that this 4 accuracy gap is the difference between annoyingly unreliable and incredibly useful.
Thanks to Deep Learning we re finally cresting that peak.
Let s learn how to do speech recognition with deep learning.
Machine Learning isn t always a Black Box.
If you know how neural machine translation works you might guess that we could simply feed sound recordings into a neural network and train it to produce text.
That s the holy grail of speech recognition with deep learning but we aren t quite there yet at least at the time that I wrote this I bet that we will be in a couple of years.
The big problem is that speech varies in speed.
One person might say hello very quickly and another person might say heeeelllllllllllllooooo very slowly producing a much longer sound file with much more data.
Both both sound files should be recognized as exactly the same text hello.
Automatically adjust audio files of various lengths to a fixed length piece of text turns out to be pretty hard.
To work around this we have to habit some special tricks and extra precessing in addition to a deep neural network.
Allow s see how it works.
The first step in speech recognition is obvious we need to feed sound waves into a computer.
In Part 3 we learned how to take an image and process it as an array of numbers so that we can feed directly into a neural network for image recognition.
But sound is carry as waves.
How do we turn sound waves into numbers.
Let s use this sound clip of me expression Hello.
