Despite the omicron variant Europe s ski resorts are fairly busy.
In Switzerland visitor numbers are exceptional pre pandemic levels. Austria is seeing a disappointing season.
Lifts at a standstill empty mountain chalets and hotels this is what. This the ski season looked like in large parts of Europe last year.
Some ski resorts is a disaster for the tourism industry. Some ski resorts in Austria and Germany for example did nt open for a single day.
This year however cable car companies and hoteliers were able to rest a sigh of relief.
Despite the rapid spread of the omicron variant skiing was and is allow everywhere albeit under strict conditions.
That the lifts are open after the 20202021 winter lockdown. Carolin Kunzmann of the Bayerische Zugspitzbahn told DW. Above all we are very happy.
However she also said. Visitor numbers have remained lower than before the pandemic.
In the areas around Germany s highest mountain as in many ski areas in the country the so called 2G rule applies.
Recovered. 2G stands for geimpft immunized. Genesen.
Kunzmann said. Every guest is break at the base station or at the ticket office.
Only will their ski pass be trip. This will be after proof of vaccination or recovery has been show.
This has LED to longer waiting times especially in the high season during the Christmas vacations. The approach has generally act well.
Queue areas. In addition FFP2 masks are still mandatory in indoor areas cable cars and ski lifts.
Austria also HA strict rules for winter sports enthusiasts.
The 2G rule and FFP2 masks are also standard practice here.
The country was in lockdown until mid December due to soaring infection numbers.
The Robert Koch Institute stated Austria a high risk area. The German Foreign Ministry accordingly issued a travel warning.
Many guests especially from Germany were understandably place off.
By the Austrian hoteliers association was ÖHV. Than before the pandemic arrived from the neighboring country according to estimates by the Austrian hoteliers association.
But still the clear majority of tourists visiting Austria are from Germany.
In January the occupancy rate of Austrian hotels was around one third. The occupancy rate which according to the ÖHV is too little to operate economically.
Course there are still a few vacancies this season. Confirms Beate Kassner. Beate is Managing Director of Zillertal Tourism.
Nevertheless she says. They are pleased with the booking situation.
Business will woof up in February. Even though Austria has once been stated a high risk area. In the Alpine region the hope is.
