Speech recognition is invading our lives.
It s built into our phones our game consoles and our smart watches.
It s even automating our homes.
For just 50 you can get an Amazon Echo Dot. Obtain a weather report. By speak out loud. Even buy trash bags. Is is a magic box that allows you to rank pizza.
The Echo Dot has been so popular this holiday season. That Amazon n t seem to continue them in stock.
But speech recognition has been about for decades. So why is it now hitting the mainstream.
The reason is. That deep learning finally made speech recognition accurate to be useful outside of carefully see environments.
As speech recognition goes from 95 accurate to 99 accurate. A primary way that we interact with computers. It will become a primary way. Andrew Ng has long call.
The idea is that this 4 accuracy gap is the difference between annoyingly unreliable and incredibly useful.
Thanks to Deep Learning we re finally cresting that peak.
Let s learn how to do speech recognition with deep learning.
Machine Learning isn t always a Black Box.
That we could feed sound recordings into a neural network. How neural machine translation workings. We and train it to produce text train it to produce text. You might guess. You know.
That s the holy grail of speech recognition with deep learning I bet that we will be in a couple of years. We aren t quite there yet at least at the time that I wrote this.
The big problem is. Speech varies in speed.
One person might say hello.
Both both sound files should be recognized as exactly the same text hello.
Automatically adjust audio files of various lengths to a fixed length piece of text turns out to be pretty hard.
We To work around this work around this. We have to habit some special tricks and extra precessing in addition to a deep neural network.
Let s see. It works.
We need to feed sound waves into a computer. The first step in speech recognition is obvious.
Treat it as an array of numbers. So that we can feed into a neural network for image recognition. In Part 3 we learned how to take an image.
But sound is carry as waves.
How do we turn sound waves into numbers.
Let s use this sound clip of me. Say Hello.
