A clock or a timepiece is a device used to measure. Indicate time.
Than the natural units is the day the lunar month year and galactic year. The clock is one of the oldest human inventions. The clock meet the need to measurement intervals of time shorter than the natural units.
Devices operating on several physical processes have been used over the millennia.
A sundial by display the position of a shadow on a flat surface display the position of a shadow on a flat surface. A sundial shows the time. Some predecessors to the modern clock may be considered as clocks that are found on movement in nature.
Of duration timers is a well known example. There is a range of duration timers being the hourglass.
Water clocks along with the sundials are possibly the oldest time measurement instruments.
The verge escapement kept time with oscillated timekeepers like balance wheels. A major advance occurred with the invention of the verge escapement. The verge escapement made possible the first mechanical clocks around 1300 in Europe.
Traditionally in horology the term clock was used for a striking clock. A clock that did not strike the hours audibly was called a timepiece.
This distinction is no longer made.
Watches and other timepieces that can be carried on one s person are usually not concern to as clocks.
Spring driven clocks appeared during the 15th century.
During the 15th and 16th centuries clockmaking flourished.
The next development in accuracy occurred after 1656 with the invention of the pendulum clock by Christiaan Huygens.
A major stimulus to improving the accuracy and reliability of clocks was the importance of precise time keeping for navigation.
The mechanism of a timepiece with a series of gears driven by a spring or weights is referred to as clockwork. The term is used by extension for a similar mechanism not used in a timepiece.
Electronic clocks were introduced in the 20th century. Electronic clocks become widespread with the development of small battery powered semiconductor devices. The electric clock was patented in 1840.
The timekeeping element or oscillates at a particular frequency oscillates at a particular frequency. The timekeeping element is a physical object that vibrates. The timekeeping element in every modern clock is a harmonic oscillator. The timekeeping element is resonator.
This object can be a pendulum a tuning fork a quartz crystal. As they emit microwaves. This object can the vibration of electrons in atoms.
Clocks have different ways of displaying the time.
Analog clocks designate time with a traditional clock face with moving hands.
Digital clocks display a numeric representation of time.
Two numbering systems are in use 24 hour time notation and 12 hour notation.
Most digital clocks use electronic mechanisms and LCD LED or VFD displays.
For the blind and for use over telephones speaking clocks Department_of_State the time audibly in words.
There are also clocks for the blind that have displays that can be read by touch.
